Literature Notes (ACSi) 2021
The Trouble with Snowmen

Father:

Practical

The Father is practical as he is able to come up with a solution for a problem he identified(He identified a problem with the snowmen melting after the snow).

Resourceful

The Father was able to aquire the resources and equipment he needed to execute his plan(getting the cement to build a forever lasting snowman)

Patient

The Father was patient enough to explain to his son the purpose of his plan. This can be seen in "I'll build you a snowman, And I'll build it to last"

Does not quite understand what the child wants

Although the Father was able to solve all these problems, in the end he failed to understand what his child really wanted(The Father did not realise his son valued the time with him and the experience of building a snowman)

Feelings towards the Father:

I am dissapointed with the Father to some extent as he did not really take into consideration what his child had felt about the issue, yet I also feel quite sad for him as all of his effort in the end was not only unnapreciated by the son, but also made the son feel certain resentment towards his actions which I feel completely wasted his time and effort.

Speaker:

Unappreciative

The Speaker was unappreciative of the Father's effort and time into making the snowman, with the intention to let the Speaker be disappointed due to the melting of the handmade snowman.

Unfillial

The Speaker is unfillial as he did not respect what his Father had put in his effort for and had used very strong derogatory language on what the Speaker's Father has built.

Resentful

The Speaker feels resentful to concrete snowman the Father had built, as it had deprived him of what he valued, the experience of building the snowman and the time spent with the Father building the snowman.

Feelings towards the Speaker:

I feel disgusted to some extent towards the Speaker, as he completely neglects the idea that the Father had built the concrete snowman with the idea of benefiting the Speaker and the fact that the Speaker uses such strong words against the snowman the the Father had spent his time and effort in building for the Speaker.

Literary Devices:

ABCB Rhyme Scheme

The permanence of the snowman can be seen in that the ABCB rhyme scheme emphasised the words "LAST" and "CAST". This brings out the fact that the snowman the father made that was cast in cement was gto last a long time as compared to the snowmen made of ice that could only last as long as winter.

Imagery

The permanence of the snowman is brought out using "Be it sunshine or rain." This brings out the permanence of the snowman as the cement snowman will be able to withstand the elements such as rain or shine unlike the delicate and fragile ice snowmen.

Alliteration
Similie

"like an unmarked gravestone" is an example of a simile used. The simile is likening the cement snowman the speaker's father built for him to an unmarked gravestone. This shows that the snowman is the speaker's only reminder of his father who is mentioned to be gone. This also shows that the writer resents the fathers hard work because the snowman is representing a gravestone which connotes negative feelings. Moreover, the use of unmarked implies that the snowman is seen as insignificant or not important.

Personification
Neighbours

Neighbour:

Disciplinarian

The Neighbour is a disciplinarian as she disciplines her children through beating, and she also disciplines them to have good manners(her children always greeting the speaker)

Ignorant

It is not clear what the Neighbour could be unclear about, but she could be ignorant about her neighbour being a muslim(gives the Speaker candy with gelatin), the fact that muslims cannot eat gelatin(gives the Speaker candy with gelatin).

Emotional/Troubled

The Neighbour is emotionally troubled as she says that "she wants to kill herself" signalling that she could be struggling in life.

Polite/Neighbourly

The Neighbour returns the Speaker's gesture of giving her cakes, by giving the Speaker candy in return, showing that she is conscious to return the kindness that the Speaker has displayed towards her.

Feelings towards the Neighbour:

I feel sympathetic towards the Neighbour as she is being criticized for knowing hoow to cook and the way she handles her emotions, she is only doing what she was taught and acting from what she knows. I also feel taht no one should be criticized for being a little less knowlegable.

Speaker:

Hypocritical

The Speaker is criticizing the Neighbour for being a gossip while at the same time reveals to the reader all about the Neighbours personal life and personal matters.

Neighbourly

The Speaker did a kind gesture by giving the Neighbour cakes during Hari Raya.

Uncaring

The Speaker is uncaring as she does not help the neighbour with what she is going though, but instead criticizes the Neighbour behind her back for how unknowlegable she is, how she dresses in her own home and for hoow she handles her emotions.

Condescending

The Speaker is very condescending when describing the Neighbour, as she uses very stong langauge when criticizing the Neighbour.

Judgemental

The Speaker judges the neighbour for how she she cannot cook, how she dresses in her home and for how she shouted "she wanted to kill herself".

Feelings towards the Speaker:

I dissaprove of the Speaker's actions as she is not helping the Neighbour and is not understanding of the Neighbour at all but also criticizes the Neighbour at the same time. Although I say this, most people would have admitted to doing such things to other people.

Literary Devices:

Metaphor
Imagery
Structure
Irony
Tone

By Jonnas and Sujen, Good Luck!
